---
title: Content Analysis
author: Brett Petch
date: 2020-01-28 19:00:00
layout: category-post
categories: 
    - week-3
    - lecture
---

#### Melissa Adler
#### January 28th, 2019: 7pm Lecture

This week is very how-to. The slides are very text-heavy and we're going to talk about content analysis, and hopefully you've got a topic, a question and some literature. Maybe you've started collecting some data. I'm going to tell you what to do until the next chunk, including some coding. Stick around for at least the first 15 minutes of the online refine so you know what to bring to tutorial and so you know how to apply it to what you're doing. Think of it as a language. It takes a bit to get your head into this kind of thinking.

## Content Analysis as a Method
You may find that there is some qualitative, as well as quantitative process that really resembles close readings. They're broadly conceived, policy documents, you name it. We are systematically analysing texts. You've already looked at films, advertisements, etc. Instead of analysing one music video, you're going to look at 20. Find similarities in the set of data, be able to explain what is going on with it. 

Content analysis came out of Media Studies in the post-war era. The OG was interested in Nazi propaganda, and propaganda at large. Looked at how messages were encoded. We branched out from this, and now look closely at texts to see what they're doing and how. It's a way of studying documented human communications. It's unobtrusive. Any place that gets government funding. We are using publicly available content because we are limited. We do not want to do anything such as ethnography, etc. Methods about interacting with other humans will be on the exam because you cannot do it in class. 

### The Process:
#### Initial Immersion
Fairly standard practice. Doing up close readings. One of the things about doing the reading is looking at the closeness of the data. We aren't trying to say this is what is true about all of this data, but instead something smaller, local. You're likely already in this initial immersion stage, get a sense of "the pulse of data". 

You can then code it, catalogue it. We're coding it: assigning descriptors for chunks of data, whether it be line by line, or by picture, etc. It is an iterative process. You will find that similar things occur throughout your data. You will be able to group this data together, you should be able to interpret it, discover what does it all mean?

#### Memoing
Think of the data while you're coding, compare, etc. Memoing

## Qualitative content analysis
You may be reading, etc. then decide to take the project in this direction. Find data that fits this data / this direction. Be in dialogue with yourselves. One of the things that this really resembles is grounded theory: codes, concepts, themes, insights emerge out of the data (are grounded in the data); perhaps you form a conclusion from the data. The less you know about your subject, the better. Best look at the data and encode it. It used to be of the purest of data. This is not the case anymore.

## Validity / Credibility
Do the conclusions follow from the data? Can we trust your findings? For example, the Buzzfeed piece on Meghan and Kate; how do we know that what we are looking at has to do with gender, race, celebrity status, royalty, etc. How do you know what you're looking at is the driving factor?

## Sampling
If you're talking about 'All canadian voters' you want to ensure that more than one region is representative of the populous. You'll find yourself narrowing down. It's not just about your conclusion. If you're looking at 'how british tabloids represent Meghan Marcle' -> don't just look at the racist ones. If you want to look at it through race -> 'how do british tabloids represent Meghan Marcle through race'. If you're getting nothing new in data, then you're getting all kinds of things, you may be able to find similar.
Non-random.
Purposive: seeking out the best cases for hte study; the data supports the purpose and questions
Saturation Point: Your data is no longer presenting new information

## Prepare the Data
Existing texts or transcripts, choice of content must be justified by your question and purpose.

## Unit of analysis

## What content can be analysed?


> "Coding means categorizing segments of data with a short name that simultaneously summarizes and accounts for each piece of data. Your codes show how you select, separate, and sort data to begin an analytic accounting of them"
- Charmaz, 43

> "Define what is happening in the data and grapple with what it means"
- 46

## What to look For: 
What is going on?
What are people doing?
What is the person saying?
What are these actions and statements take for granted?
How do structure and context serve to support, maintain, impede or change...

## Summarize:
- Codes can come from theory and explanations 'outside the data'' and / or 'emerge from the data'
- Coding often starts by being descriptive but needs to become analytical
- Use "consistent comparative methods" to establish distinctions, find similarities and differences.
- Any new codes created should be applied to the whole data set (previously coded units of data)
- Memos should be used to record your thoughts and ideas about your codes during the process -- keep these separate from the codes and data.

Hopefully that makes sense. Let's look at some examples.

## Kate and Meghan.
The idea of having 4-5 people is called inter-coding reliability. We're interested in how the details are expressed. We're going to go one by one. 
### Kate
- Anticipation
- tenderness and cradling  -- look at text
- responsible  --  "wrapping up royal duties ahead of maternity leave"

- william confirms  --  possibly authority, bringing William into the picture (why need will to confirm?)
- different angles of same day/green outfit  --  not quite sure, but memo.

### Meghan
- Judgemental tone
- Nations Gossip  --  
- Pride, vanity, acting  --  evaluative tones
- "new age"

- Labels for every kind of touch  --  notes
- Many different *scenes*  --  notes

### Kate
- Stylish
- Coordinated with the queen
- Perfection

- Gaze between Queen and other woman
- Kate looking at queen. -- memo - perfectly coordinated? stylish coat doesn't match the queen

### Meghan
- Confusion  --  not positive words
- Trouble  --  not positive words
- Laughter

- Smiling, laughing
- Both looking out (at audience?)  --  more together than kate and the queen were.

Reduce data to manage, etc.

## Climate Change 
### Fox News
- Cult  --  
- Climatology  --  
- Greta Thunberg

- Hysteria
- Changing our kids  --  creating hysteria

### Fox News 2
- Expensive "will cost trillions"
- Democratic -- party politics
- Challenging authority
- "prove" in quotes (undermining)

- Openly laughed
- Called it insane

This makes it so someone else can retrace your steps and understand what you did

## Memoing
Interpretations in the headlines... 

So, this is where we are: the data will lead you to collect more data, may steer you in another direction. Pretty soon you'll begin to see patterns, categories wil emerge and you'll do a thematic analysis. Final project: Interpret your findings, discuss, mobilize your new knowledge.

## Critical Discourse Analysis
Studies the ways objects or ideas are spoken about. 
Relations of power. 
Networks of institutions and subjects.
Processes and structures through which norms become institutionalized.

## Watch Stuart Hall Video (Representation & the Media)
Classification is one of the ways we make meaning. We all have this desire to categorize. We make sense of the world by sharing these meanings. Language is created, etc. Hopefully you can draw connections between these leaps. These things are happening all of the time. All algorithms are working through categories.

<iframe allow='encrypted-media;' style="width: 45vw; height: 45vh;" width='640' height='390' src='https://uwo.kanopy.com/embed/41581?v=20190405' frameborder='0' allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen></iframe>

```
```

<iframe scrolling="no" style="width: 45vw; height: 45vh;" src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/embed?id=1yeSkKOdQoPckdZHyRo-HsVaFZRfRs0T6xE90Px0ElGs&amp;referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fresearch-methods-digital-age.com%2Fhome%2Fweek-4-coding&amp;size=l" allowfullscreen="true" frameborder="0"></iframe>


```
END
```