---
title: Tutorial 1
author: Brett Petch
date: 2020-01-08 13:30:00
layout: category-post
categories: 
    - week-2
    - tutorial
---
# Designing and Critiquing Research Methods, MIT 2025 - 006
## Tutorial 6, Wed 1:30-2:30 PM
### UC 3220

**TA**: Nick Wingerak
**Contact**: nwingera@uwo.ca
**Office Hours**: -

## Description
The tutorial component of MIT 2025 will be an opportunity for you to engage iwht your peers and TAs. Providing an opportunity to ask more questions, discuss and receive feedback on your projectsand assignment, and to create an informed approach to the coursework ahead.

## Student Participation / Preperation Evaluation- 15% of Final Grade
### Attendance and Participation - 5%
Attendance will be taken at the beginning of each class. Participation grades vary and are based on the quality of student contributions, which should reflect the knowledge of the readings and lecture content as well as the demonstration of creative, critical, and independant thinking. Students are expected to conduct discussion in a way that is constructive and respectful to others. If you require any special accomidation in regard to this, please come see me individually to discuss. Please om prepared for class with at least one thoughtful question you have about the readings/lecture to share with the class.
### Preparedness - 10% (5 activities, 2 points each)
Students will be expected to come to tutorial or lecture prepared for class by having done the five required readings and online activities as indicated in the course schedule.
#### Online Activities Due in Tutorial (5 activities)
1. **Week 2 (Jan 15th):** Bring 2-3 citations for a topic you are interested in.
2. **Week 3 (Jan 22nd):** Bring answers to the online activity questions
3. **Week 5 (Feb 5th):** Letter to tech company or government agency basedo nthis week's materials
4. **Week 8 (Mar 4th):** Bring online activity.
5. **Week 9 (Mar 11th):** Bring outline of your study design.
